The clone wars acted pretty much like a galactic
civil war, splitting up the entire galaxy
into two halves, among the republic loyalists
and the separatists.
Once the war became official, scores of republic
citizens fled to separatist space to fight
for their cause, ranging from everyday people
to former republic senators.
Even some Jedi left the Republic and joined
the Separatist Alliance, both for political
reasons, and even to learn the dark side from
Count Dooku himself.
Such former Jedi that served Dooku were known
as Dark Acolytes.
So who were these Jedi?
One of the first Jedi to join Dooku was Kadrian
Sey.
She was a Zabrak Jedi Knight, who was assigned
long term missions in the outer rim.
While in the outer rim, she found herself
in the middle of the separatist crisis, which
was a series of movements across multiple
planets that sought to free themselves from
the Republic’s corrupt grip and become independent.
Supposedly she herself was swayed by the cries
of these people, as when the Jedi called her
back to join them against the separatists,
she refused and abandoned the Jedi ways.
She instead decided to join the enemy of the
Jedi, Count Dooku, who happily welcomed her
to his movement and made her one of the first
dark acolytes.
After being taught the dark side of the force
and constructing her red lightsaber, she became
one of Dooku’s trusted bodyguards.
She didn’t really do much, other than get
killed by Quinlan Vos when he revealed to
everyone present that he was an undercover
Republic agent.
Next is Tol Skorr.
Like most Jedi, Skorr was taken in by the
Jedi at a young age and was taught in the
ways of the jedi.
He eventually achieved the rank of Jedi knight,
and was granted the title of General during
the start of the Clone Wars.
During one of his first missions in the clone
wars, he was shot down in a dogfight and almost
died on Korriban before being rescued by Count
Dooku.
Grateful in having his life saved, Skorr pledged
his allegiance to Dooku and fell to the dark
side after he was trained by the Sith Lord.
After constructing his new red lightsaber,
he served Dooku mostly as a bodyguard and
as an assassin.
He was sent in one mission to Korriban along
with Quinlan Vos to retrieve a sith holocron
known as the Holocron of Heresies.
Later, Skorr, along with ventress, was assigned
to kill Quinlan Vos due to his apparent failures.
The two dark acolytes tracked Vos down, but
were met with another Jedi, Obi Wan Kenobi.
After many duels among the four, the two Jedi
were able to escape.
After his failure to kill Vos, Skorr was assigned
to oversee a secret Separatist project on
Saleucami.
During the battle of Saleucami, Skorr was
killed by Vos after the enraged Jedi force
pushed Skorr to his death.
Next is Sora Bulq.
He was a Jedi Master who was extremely talented
with the lightsaber, being able to compete
with even Mace Windu on some level.
Because of this skill, he was one of the main
lightsaber instructors in the Jedi temple.
Outside of his Jedi affairs, he grew to become
disappointed with the Galactic Republic, frustrated
with seeing it become consumed in corruption.
When the time came, Bulq answered the call
and joined the Jedi strike team to capture
the separatist leaders on Geonosis.
Although he fought in the arena, he never
fought in the battle that took place after,
as his gunship was shot down before it got
a chance to land.
After the battle, the Jedi Order assumed he
had died, so they left him.
But he didn’t die, and was found by Jedi
Master Tholme, who took him along with him
on a mission to confront Dooku.
Although they both failed in defeating him,
Dooku did have a chance to plant the seeds
of dissent within Bulq, by telling Bulq that
the only way to end the corruption of the
republic was to have the Jedi rule it, and
that the Jedi council was limiting the order’s
potential by having it serve a corrupt senate.
Bulq agreed, after becoming sadden over the
fact of learning how many of his former students
had perished in the battle of Geonosis, the
battle that was instigated by the Jedi council.
When Bulq got back to Coruscant to drop off
the injured Tholme, he then went on to create
a splinter faction of Jedi who refused to
fight in the clone wars, and basically refused
to obey the Jedi council’s orders.
This splinter faction was supported by Dooku,
who then set up a plot to trick the Jedi into
believing that Windu was a ruthless killer
by making it seem like he assassinated the
dissident Jedi, to make it seem like the Jedi
council was led by maniacs and to encourage
even more Jedi to leave the Order.
This plot was supported by Bulq, who at that
point had joined Dooku.
Though the plot was uncovered and foiled by
Windu and a few other Jedi, who had discovered
Bulq’s fall to the dark side and his allegiance
to Dooku.
Afterwards, Bulq became one of Dooku’s most
trusted allies, becoming the leader of the
other Dark side acolytes.
On the other side of the galaxy, the Jedi
Council was in shock to learn that one of
their greatest lightsaber duelists would betray
them, with even Mace Windu taking on some
of the guilt, believing that him teaching
Bulq Vaapad played a role to his fall to the
dark side.
During the war, Bulq was given great power
and responsibilities within the confederacy,
being given power to govern entire planets
and execute leaders of planets that were a
risk to the separatists.
Near the end of the war, he was given command
of a secret separatist project on Saleucami,
known as the Shadow Army, which was the separatists’
attempt at creating their own clone army.
During the battle of Saleucami, Bulq was slain
by Quinlan Vos during a duel, to which his
body was later consumed by lava.
The most famous Jedi to join Count Dooku was
Asaj Ventress.
Originally from Dathomir, Ventress was reluctantly
sold as a slave in order to protect the Nightsister
clan.
After her slave master got killed during a
raid by pirates, she was taken in by Jedi
knight Ky Narec, who taught her in the ways
of the force and made her his Jedi padawan.
Together, they protected the town they lived
in by continuous pirate raids, until one day
Narec was killed in a skirmish.
Her master’s death made her snap and brutally
slaughter all the pirates and eventually all
the warlords that they served, taking over
the Outer Rim planet Rattatak and making it
her personal kingdom.
Such anger from her master’s death led her
to the dark side.
A few months after the Clone Wars began, Count
Dooku started to search for an assassin to
teach.
He was brought to Rattatak by one of his contacts,
who introduced him Ventress.
After impressing Dooku by eliminating all
the gladiators in the gladiatorial arena,
Ventress was taken in by the Sith Lord and
taught the powers of the dark side, finally
ending her training by giving her two curved
red lightsabers.
As a Separatist commander, she led many battles
with the droid army and successfully killed
multiple jedi during her campaigns.
Anakin Skywalker became her arch nemesis,
in which she dueled the talented Jedi knight
multiple times, usually being overpowered
by him and forced to retreat.
But she did give him the scar over his eye,
so she gained a point there between their
rivalry.
Her fate splits up into two parts among Canon
and Legends.
In Canon, she was betrayed by Count Dooku
and was forced to flee from a battle.
She made her way to the nightsisters and there
she planned on killing Count Dooku.
But she failed multiple times, both by being
overpowered by the Sith Lord and later being
betrayed by her secretly implanted ally, Savage
Opress, who turned on her during their duel
against Dooku.
After her failed assassination attempts and
witnessing her people’s massacre, she ditched
her past life and joined the life of bounty
hunters.
She later helped Ahsoka Tano prove her innocence,
and even helped the Jedi Council near the
end of the Clone Wars, where she and Quinlan
Vos went undercover to assassinate Count Dooku.
They of course failed, but this time, Ventress
was killed by Dooku after sacrificing her
life to save Vos, whom she fell in love with
during their mission.
She was then buried on Dathomir.
In Legends, she remained as Dooku’s servant
up until the battle of Boz Pity near the end
of the war, where she was betrayed by Dooku
who used her as bait and shot her down, leaving
her behind just so he could make his own escape.
She barely survived, and after recovering,
she ordered herself to be transported as far
away from galaxy affairs as possible.
Her fate is currently unknown.
Finally, we have Quinlan Vos, whose allegiance
to Dooku is kind of all over the place in
both Canon and Legends.
Initially, Quinlan Vos was a Jedi Master who
typically underwent undercover missions for
the Jedi Council.
In Canon, he was assigned a mission to assassinate
Count Dooku.
Early on, he met up with Asajj Ventress, who
was a bounty hunter at the time, and he tried
to learn her knowledge on Dooku’s secrets
and whereabouts.
Later, he was taught the dark side of the
force by Ventress, as he believed that would
be the only way he could defeat Dooku.
During their company of each other, Ventress
and Vos fell in love, but kept it hidden for
the most part.
When the time came, they both attempted to
assassinate Dooku, but failed, with Vos being
captured by Dooku, while Ventress barely escaped.
As a prisoner, Vos was tortured, both physically
and mentally by the Count, finally succumbing
completely to the dark side.
When Ventress attempted to rescue Vos, he
attacked her, proving to her that he was truly
gone.
Secretly, Vos became Dooku’s new right hand
man, taking on the public name as Admiral
Enigma.
Unaware of this, the Jedi set up a mission
to rescue Vos from Admiral Enigma.
Knowing this, Dooku set up a plot to deceive
them, by staging Vos as still a prisoner,
while in fact he was loyal to Dooku.
After being rescued, Vos was taken back to
the Jedi Order and was believed to have been
back to the light side.
In reality, Vos was an undercover agent for
Dooku, and he went on to undermine many missions
for the Jedi.
Suspecting him to be an undercover agent for
Dooku, the Jedi council sent Vos once again
to assassinate Dooku along with a few other
Jedi to prove to them that he was still on
their side.
During the assassination mission, Ventress
and Vos confronted Dooku, but were defeated
by him, who took the life of Ventress right
in front of Vos.
Seeing his lover die, Vos used his newfound
strength to beat Dooku, but spared his life,
believing it wasn't the Jedi way to kill an
unarmed prisoner.
Dooku escaped, and the other Jedi that were
with him suspected Vos spared Dooku because
he was still his agent, so they took him in
as a Republic prisoner.
When taken before the Jedi council, Vos confessed
that he had fallen to the dark side and all
the questionable actions he had done while
undercover.
The Jedi listened and took his honestly well,
stating that they were at fault with giving
him such a crude mission involving assassination,
and that his fall to the dark side was partially
their fault.
Afterwards, Vos was allowed to rejoin the
Jedi order, where he led a few battles near
the end of the clone wars.
In Legends, Vos was instead given the task
of going undercover behind enemy lines and
set up a secret spy network, that would feed
Republic intelligence crucial information
on their enemy’s tactics and strategies.
Eventually, Vos was able to infiltrate Count
Dooku’s inner circle, becoming a Dark Acolyte,
seeking the find the other sith lord.
After Vos revealed himself as an undercover
Republic agent and killed another Dark Acolyte
by the name of Sey, he was captured by Dooku,
who was able to bring Vos to the dark side.
After his fall to the dark side, Vos was made
into a trusted aid by Dooku, giving him a
red lightsaber crystal from the sith holocron
he had retrieved earlier from Korriban.
Knowing Vos was still loyal to the Jedi, Dooku
took advantage of this and sent Vos on false
assassination missions, making him believe
he was killing the secret Sith lord, while
in reality they were just republic senators
or other allies of the republic.
Despite his seeming loyalty to Dooku, Vos
still went out of his way to save other Jedi
in danger, as he did with Obi Wan when he
was hunted by Ventress and Skorr for his apparent
failures.
In the end, Vos revealed to Dooku on Saleucami
that he was a Jedi the entire time and that
the Dark side had never fully taken him.
Although he was unable to kill or capture
Dooku, Vos was able to kill his other two
dark acolytes, Skorr and Bulq.
After his undercover mission was finished,
Vos returned to the Jedi and later led his
own battles near the end of the clone wars.